---
layout: post
title:  "Clase  del Lunes 08/11/2021 (Semana C)"
categories: Clases
visible: true
---



## Exercises on Asynchronous JS

### Comparing Performances: Sync vs Async and REST vs GraphQL in the gh-org-members extension

Véase [crguezl/gh-org-members/gh-org-members.js](https://github.com/crguezl/gh-org-members/blob/main/gh-org-members.js)

This is an extension that shows information about the people inside an organization.
The initial version was written using the GitHub REST API. The performance was poor due to chaining of subsequent requests.
Parallelizing the requests to the REST API gave quite an improvement but changing to GraphQL was much better and since we were able to reduce all the 
REST requests  to a single GraphQL one  and furthermore 
we got rid of the need to use parallelism.


| REST Seq    | REST Parallel | GraphQL     |
| :---:       |   :----:      |    :---:    |
| 12,754      | 3,3           | 1,5         |



### Comparing Performances: In the gh-submodule extension

Improvement of the algorithm unifying in a single query all the queries to check when repos are empty. 
In the current version, the first query to make the search (option `-s`) is still implemetned using an API REST query,

Times for only queries to search for the repos and check what are empty:

| REST -n | GraphQL -n |
| :---:   | :---:      |
| 11,8    |  2,1       |

Plus downloading 16 repos:

| REST  | GraphQL | Parallel |
| :---: | :---:   | :---:    |
| 33,9  | 24      |  10,5    |


### Both Parallel and unified GraphQL queries 


The problem with parallelizing the downloads of submodules is that when we put concurrent `git submodule`s to work, `git`complains 
due to the race conditions that arise. Here is a capture of such kind of complaints:

```
    Otro proceso git parece estar corriendo en el repositorio, es decir
    un editor abierto con 'git commit'. Por favor asegúrese de que todos los procesos
    están terminados y vuelve a intentar. Si el fallo permanece, un proceso git
    puede haber roto el repositorio antes:
    borra el archivo manualmente para continuar.
```

Fortunately `git clone` can be done in parallel and so the idea was to make a parallel battery of  `git clone`s
and later to sequentially perform the `git submodule add` commands.

The man page says:

`git submodule [-f|--force] [--name <name>] [--depth <depth>] [--] <repository> [<path>]`

adds the given `<repository>` as a submodule at the given `<path>` to the *changeset* to be 
committed next to the current project: the current project is termed the *superproject*.  

**If `<path>` exists and is already a valid Git repository, then it is staged for commit without cloning**. 

Since the repositories were cloned independently and later added as submodules the old setups have the submodules `.git` directory inside the submodule instead of embedded into the superprojects git directory which is the way submodules work.

This forces us to issue an additional `git submodule absorbgitdirs` commands per submodule folder. 

This is what `git submodule absorbgitdirs` does:

> If a `.git` directory of a submodule is inside the submodule, move the `.git` directory of the submodule into its superproject’s `.git/modules` path and
> then connect the `.git` directory and its working directory by setting the **`core.worktree`**[^1] and adding a `.git` file pointing to the `.git` directory embedded
> in the *superproject*s git directory.
> This command is recursive by default.

See also the question <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/36386667/how-to-make-an-existing-directory-within-a-git-repository-a-git-submodule>

Here is a table  showing  the variation of the time in my laptop when the number of concurrent processes varies:

| 1    | 2       |  3   | 4         |   5   |   6     | 7        |  8    | 9     |
| :---:| :---:   | :---:|:---:      | :---: | :---:   | :---:    | :---: | :---: |
|  23,4|  16,    | 14,3 | 13,2      | 11,6  |  12,9   | 11,3     |  11,0  | 10.3 |


## Notes about the Lab "GitHub Cli" 

* [gh cli]({{site.baseurl}}/practicas/06p6-t1-gh-cli.html#extension)

Some of you have already written a [gh extension]({{site.baseurl}}/tema1-introduccion/gh#extension) using Node.JS. Let's have a look at these.

**Instructions about the  delivery**: 

Create a repo for your extension in a repo `ULL-MII-SYTWS-2122/gh-my-extension-name`  inside the classroom organization `ULL-MII-SYTWS-2122`. Add that repo as a `git submodule` to the repo associated to this lab assignment. Just leave the link to the assignment and extensions repos in the campus virtual 

## Lab: GraphQL-Simple-Server

Continue studying the basics of express and GraphQL

* [GraphQL-Simple-Server]({{site.baseurl}}/practicas/graphql-simple-server/#resolvers)

See the hello graphQL example at <https://github.com/crguezl/learning-graphql-with-gh/tree/main/graphql-beginner-series>

## Lab: npm module

* [npm module]({{site.baseurl}}/practicas/npm-module)

## Lab: GraphQL-Simple-Client 

* [GraphQL-Simple-Client]({{site.baseurl}}/practicas/graphql-simple-client/)


## References

* [GraphQL: Execution](https://graphql.org/learn/execution/)

## FootNotes

[^1]: If you want to know more about what the `git worktree` command does, see the video *Manage Branches easily using Git Worktree* 

{% include video id="cRunWRC8ye0" provider="youtube" %}


